Forensics Challenge #1
One of the hacker monkeys somehow got onto our computer! He called us to laugh and say he took all our passwords. The
police want evidence he stole the passwords before they can do anything. Can you find it?
On a Windows system (or Virtual Machine), download the Forensics Analysis tool Redline
(https://drive.google.com/file/d/1jjRYHjYIruBW9RdwDQ4u2Cgt63tD8Ezf) and the infected system
(https://drive.google.com/file/d/1kXHFtMVaGGD01A_rbCj-I--64rTfbJyr)
Using Redline, load the infected system, find your evidence and the flag!
Solution
Overview
Contestants will perform forensic analysis of a system that has been infected by an attacker using Redline. The contestants
need to identify a commonly used credential harvester and prove that it has been executed. The infected system contains
many different forensic artifacts you might find on a system, but the key here is PROOF of execution. Contestants may need to
research windows forensic artifacts that provide that proof something was executed, and not just present the hard drive of a
system.
This challenge will promote critical thinking about what is considered evidence, verses a theory of something happening if they
find one link in the chain.
monkeyCTF{7jpwowRVjk9xKIShd35vef3KMyqFoVlm}
TECHNICAL DETAILS
Open Redline and load the evidence provided.
©2022 Mandiant, Inc. All rights reserved. Mandiant is a registered trademark of Mandiant, Inc. All other brands, products, or service names
are or may be trademarks or service marks of their respective owners.Figure 1: Redline after loading evidence
After loading the evidence, the contestants need to start looking for common credential harvesting tools. This can be found in
many different forensic' artifacts. Contestants might find a file called mimi.zip and associate it with Mimikatz.
©2022 Mandiant, Inc. All rights reserved. Mandiant is a registered trademark of Mandiant, Inc. All other brands, products, or service names
are or may be trademarks or service marks of their respective owners.Figure 2: Example of leads they might find
We are looking for evidence of execution which you cannot be established from just looking at files present on the system. The
contestants can find proof a file was executed by looking at the Windows Prefetch artifact:
©2022 Mandiant, Inc. All rights reserved. Mandiant is a registered trademark of Mandiant, Inc. All other brands, products, or service names
are or may be trademarks or service marks of their respective owners.Figure 3: View of prefetch files
Inside this list parsed prefetch information, you should notice the execution of MIMIKATZ.exe that was recorded as being
executed from C:\TMP\M\MIMIKATZ.EXE.
©2022 Mandiant, Inc. All rights reserved. Mandiant is a registered trademark of Mandiant, Inc. All other brands, products, or service names
are or may be trademarks or service marks of their respective owners.Figure 4: Evidence of Mimikatz.exe execution
They still need to find the flag that's associated with this challenge. Prefetch records several things when a binary is executed
on Windows, including files that were accessed as the program started. Selecting the “Accessed Files” on the right, a list items
is presented to the user.
©2022 Mandiant, Inc. All rights reserved. Mandiant is a registered trademark of Mandiant, Inc. All other brands, products, or service names
are or may be trademarks or service marks of their respective owners.Figure 5: Checking accessed files
Contestants should identify a flag in this area and copy the monkeyCTF{7jpwowRVjk9xKIShd35vef3KMyqFoVlm} flag for
submission to the portal.
©2022 Mandiant, Inc. All rights reserved. Mandiant is a registered trademark of Mandiant, Inc. All other brands, products, or service names
are or may be trademarks or service marks of their respective owners.