Forensics Challenge #2
A hacker monkey sent the professor an email looking for work. Our unsuspecting professor trusted the hacker monkey and
opened the email. Can you find what the evil monkey said to the professor?
The email was not saved to the filesystem, so you will need to look somewhere else!
On a Windows system (or Virtual Machine), download the Forensics Analysis tool Redline
(https://drive.google.com/file/d/1jjRYHjYIruBW9RdwDQ4u2Cgt63tD8Ezf) and the infected system
(https://drive.google.com/file/d/1kXHFtMVaGGD01A_rbCj-I--64rTfbJyr). Using Redline, load the infected system, find your
evidence and the flag!
Solution
Overview
Contestants will perform forensic analysis of a system that has been infected by an attacker using Redline. The contestants
need to identify any areas in a forensic collection that might contain the contents of an email for their review. As we are not
providing loose files for contestants to search though, the answer will reside in memory.
Contestants will need to identify the name of the email and search for that email in memory strings. To get there, they can
pick up on a few hints:
- Spear phishing. This would hint towards search for common email domains.
- Looking for work. This can help with potential keywords to search and identify the email.
Once contestants identify the email contents, they will identify a pastebin link and will find the flag at that URL.
monkeyCTF{ptLXhJKcqrji7at2mCVKyGkzCUzx9ji6}
TECHNICAL DETAILS
Open Redline and load the evidence provided.
©2022 Mandiant, Inc. All rights reserved. Mandiant is a registered trademark of Mandiant, Inc. All other brands, products, or service names
are or may be trademarks or service marks of their respective owners.Figure 1: Redline after loading evidence
After loading the evidence, for evidence of a spear phishing email. This can be found in multiple locations such as the URL
history seen below
©2022 Mandiant, Inc. All rights reserved. Mandiant is a registered trademark of Mandiant, Inc. All other brands, products, or service names
are or may be trademarks or service marks of their respective owners.Figure 2: Example of leads they might find.
From this lead, they can identify the Title of the email and the sender.
Eventually contestants need to go to the Process -> Strings area of memory to begin searching. The same information found in
Figure 2 can be found by searching and filtering Process Strings for gmail.com
©2022 Mandiant, Inc. All rights reserved. Mandiant is a registered trademark of Mandiant, Inc. All other brands, products, or service names
are or may be trademarks or service marks of their respective owners.Figure 3: Search for common email domains in Process Strings.
After identifying this information, contestants should pivot using some of the information they have uncovered and filter for
those items. Filtering for “I Need a Job” will present you with the following:
©2022 Mandiant, Inc. All rights reserved. Mandiant is a registered trademark of Mandiant, Inc. All other brands, products, or service names
are or may be trademarks or service marks of their respective owners.Figure 4: First signs of email contents.
Contestants should recall the spear-phishing attempt came from someone looking for work, and identify the beginning of an
email of a job seeker.
Expanding upon one of the lines from the job seeker will include a link to a pastebin
©2022 Mandiant, Inc. All rights reserved. Mandiant is a registered trademark of Mandiant, Inc. All other brands, products, or service names
are or may be trademarks or service marks of their respective owners.Figure 5: Identifying the link to pastebin
When a contestant visits the pastebin (https://pastebin.com/umV3UmWB) found in that email message they will find the flag
monkeyCTF{ptLXhJKcqrji7at2mCVKyGkzCUzx9ji6}.
Figure 6: Finding the flag
©2022 Mandiant, Inc. All rights reserved. Mandiant is a registered trademark of Mandiant, Inc. All other brands, products, or service names
are or may be trademarks or service marks of their respective owners.